---
layout: post
category: rant
title: "time"
---

> As if you could kill time without injuring eternity.

I read the essay [Cranking](http://www.43folders.com/2011/04/22/cranking) for the first time.  I'm not sure how this escaped my notice for so long.  Probably because I've been trying to be productive instead of genuine.  It happens.

But the point of the essay is the point I've been trying to reach.  Productivity without direction is useless.  The most important direction is the preservation of compassion, reason.  A reasonable person has enough energy at the end of a work day to be able to help their wife.  A compassionate person allows themself time to daydream.

This overlaps with [Cal Newport's New Yorker article](https://www.newyorker.com/culture/office-space/the-frustration-with-productivity-culture) about productivity backlash.  These were released about ten years apart, but the similarity remains eternal.  Except now more people are feeling how useless the productivity cranking feels, because of the pandemic and the stress and the continued push to "remain productive in uncertain times".  This corporatist attitude of remaining productive goes against reason and compassion.  

Healthy people can push against this and find a balance, but the pandemic means any number of traditional stress-relief measures like drinking at a bar or therapeutic shopping are gone, and all that's left is a terrifying void of entertainment or novelty that creates a terrible drowning pool of introspection.  And as we look inwards, we find all of the values and dreams we'd forgotten, and when we manage to emerge from that black hell we wonder why we're still in hell, merely now lit by Slack notifications.

There's a lot to say about how the internalization of forced productivity is driving white-collar workers nuts, while the externalization of skill into anonymous algorithms is degrading working workers... but the thing I came to this little terminal to say is that something needs to be done.  

Productivity is an economic measure, easy to comprehend and easier to solve for.  We've realized how to measure productivity, career growth, even time.  But there is no formula to solve for perfecting reason, or radiating compassion.  And the more we rely on perfect measures, the less equipped we are to solve for real problems, and the easier it becomes to ignore them, concentrate on cranking, and slowly lose what makes us better people.